---
layout: post
title: "The awesome community bonding period"
date: 2018-05-13
categories:
  - GSoC'18
description:
image: "/assets/images/post2-5.jpg"
image-sm: https://cdn.tproger.ru/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/summer-of-code-cover.jpg
---

GSoC is all about contributing to open source and what makes open source special is the community. 
<br>
<br>
I experienced the same with Systers. People here are just so awesome. Meanwhile, our GSoC admins had some great things in the bag for us. 
<br>
<br>

<ul>
<font size="5">
<li>
<b>Happy Hours</b>: Yes you read it right! We had very engaging informal meetings during these hours. From dogs to food, from places to names, we discussed them all :P.
</li>
<br>
<li>
<b> 1:1's with mentors: </b> Now this was a remarkable initiative by the mentors and the community. It is the team of mentors and students who would be converting that proposal into a live project. It is very necessary to develop a sense of familiarity and understanding between them. I had some great conversations with my mentors and gained a lot, hearing from those who are already there (both Industry and Research!). Great thing to note here that 2 of my mentors are previous year GSoC students.
</li>
<br>
<li>
<b>Playing sessions:
</b>
When I was writing my proposal, I could have never have thought that I'll be playing online games
with people who would be reviewing my proposal. Till now all of us have played this <a href="https://en.boardgamearena.com/#!gamepanel?game=cantstop">game</a>, thrice.
(I'm yet to win though :D)
</li>
<br>

</font>
</ul>

<font size="5">
Besides this, the period can be of great use for preparing yourself for the coding period. 
You also learn things which you don't know beforehand, like frameworks, languages and your project architecture in general. 
The timeline that we prepare during making the proposal is also not the final. Like in my case, we had a couple of meetings before the final timeline took shape.
<br>
That was it for the community bonding period. And the coding journey of GSoC begins....
<br>
<br>
PS: In coming days, stay tuned for all the updates of my GSoC journey.
</font> 



